[Music]
want to get the best for your money here
are 10 grocery shopping tricks you must
know to get quality products you know
all we want is safe fresh good quality
food from the grocery store is that too
much to ask
apparently so because a lot of food
manufacturers and retailers out there
care more about profits and they'll do
anything to cut costs even if it means
risking your well-being that's why we're
here to spread the message and let the
consumer that is you know what to look
for to keep yourself from falling prey
to these dishonest and dangerous traps
but first remember that we have all
kinds of useful videos like this one on
the bright side of life so subscribe and
turn on post notifications to stay
updated let's start with number one
don't fall for the convenience of
prepackaged items think twice before
reaching for individually packaged foods
that were sliced or prepared in the deli
these often include cold cuts cheese or
vegetable trace marinades fruits and the
like it's highly probable that these
foods are expired or just about to go
bad the date of packaging won't tell you
anything in this case because these
sorts of stickers can easily be changed
several times a day fresh food in this
packaging immediately attracts a lot of
bacteria which is why it's better to
either ask someone in the deli to cut
and wrap your food in front of you or go
for factory packaged goods number two be
alert in the deli department now when
buying ready-made salads pay attention
to the ones that have a lot of garlic
and spice or fresh herbs this is how
retailers tried to disguised expired
goods when choosing a salad remember
that those with meat or fish expire way
faster than vegetable ones salads with
oil dressings are safer than ones
dressed with mayonnaise still it's
better to choose salads without any
dressing because they can be stored for
up to two days to be on the completely
safe side you can check if the deli
follows the FDA safety regulations when
it comes to working with fresh food
these include
ready-made salads must be kept in a
glass dish it oxidizes faster in metal
ones and in a separate display case
every dish should have its own spoon
service personnel must always wear
disposable gloves when handling food tip
number three check the condition of the
packaging crunched up sides deformations
cracks smashed cardboard traces of dried
liquids these are not just cosmetic
defects any visible damage can be a sign
of improper storage transporting in the
wrong directions and even expiration
perform a thorough inspection of the
packaging just be careful that you might
end up buying it if you accidentally
damage the product number four carefully
examine all goods especially fresh ones
grocery stores know perfectly well how
to showcase their goods from the best
side your task is to see what's hidden
for example lighting in meat display
cases makes everything look fresh and
mouth-watering so ask the person working
the meat counter to take a piece that
you would like out of the display so you
can look at it yourself you'll be
shocked at how different it can look
under normal lighting don't follow
stereotypical advice either a lot of
people avoid buying meat with a dry film
on top because they think it's old all
that means though is that this meat has
been in contact with the air and wasn't
covered by plastic wrap if a piece of
meat looks too perfectly wet that's a
sign that store workers have probably
tried to freshen it up by spraying water
on it this deceptive practice just makes
the meat less juicy once it's cooked as
for frozen foods don't buy ones with a
lot of ice blaze on them in the majority
of cases this means that the goods were
frozen and defrosted many times which
can actually be dangerous for your
health it's also difficult to visually
estimate what's hidden under that icy
glaze
number five beware of brightly colored
goods now we tend to associate bright
colors with bright flavors but this is a
dangerous misconception fruits and
vegetables that were grown naturally in
soil normally have a duller color spots
and other imperfections on the peel but
this doesn't mean they're not healthy
and tasty fruits that were grown in
greenhouses are perfect and beautiful
but that's because they contain
chemicals that give them this visually
pleasing aesthetic many people think
that the brighter the cheese looks the
more fat it contains so the better it
tastes but truly natural cheese is
always white or pale yellow that bright
yellow color is only achieved by adding
colouring in most cases this is a
harmless color additive made from a
Netto tree seeds but still if you want
to be on the safe side don't pick your
cheese based on a vivid color the bright
color of salmon can be achieved by using
chemical coloring too another example is
ketchup and other sauces even though
we're always attracted to bright jars
it's better to choose sauces with more
subdued colors that means they were made
from natural components oh and let's not
forget the bright red meat that gives us
a false impression that it's fresh off
the farm meat tends to turn grayish when
exposed to heat but great doesn't sell
now does it
so the butchers solution is to treat it
with nitric oxide also known as pink
salt or curing salt to maintain its
reddish shade fresh you say haha number
six it's time to take a look around for
the goods you need in order to sell more
expensive products retailers put them on
the most noticeable place on the shelf
at the consumers eye level or in the
middle of the display case we're drawn
to these goods simply because of this
marketing ploy but it doesn't mean that
they're made from quality ingredients in
order to minimize loss because of
expired goods retailers have their
workers move products that are about to
expire closer to these attractive places
the solution is simple don't be lazy
reach for the back of the shelf in order
to buy
fresher and better quality foods search
for items on the very top and bottom of
shelves - this is where they placed
cheaper products a little leg exercise
won't hurt if you're looking to save
money right number seven understand the
labels literally if you see products
labeled as milk ease cheese O's Yoko's
and other weird names don't assume that
the manufacturer is just trying to be
cute they use these terms because the
ingredients in their products aren't
real and can't legally be called such
these funny names are meant to disguise
and sell a cheap low-quality equivalent
of a real product don't think that
labels like no sugar added no
cholesterol enriched with vitamins and
the like are indicators of quality in
fact no sugar added basically means
contains a lot of chemical sweeteners
and you don't want to eat chemicals now
do you mm-hmm me neither
number eight be wary of foods labeled
organic first of all let's establish
what organic food actually is according
to the US Department of Agriculture
organic food is produced by farmers who
emphasize the use of renewable resources
it's produced without conventional
pesticides fertilizers made with
synthetic ingredients or sewage sludge
bioengineering or ionizing radiation
yeah all of those sound pretty scary
right but how can you know if
something's the real deal for fresh
produce like fruits and vegetables check
the price look up or PLU sticker it
should have a five digit code that
starts with the number nine like nine
four 401 if it doesn't it's not organic
number nine choose local Goods checking
if a product was locally sourced is
extremely important when choosing fruits
vegetables and dairy products it's
better to buy locally sourced Goods
because long transportation and possible
violations of carriage conditions can
influence their taste and quality plus
it's never a bad idea to support local
businesses in your community
number tab asks store workers for their
advice retail staff might be instructed
to arrange goods on a shelf a certain
way but most of them won't lie to
someone's face use your chance to ask a
store worker about the goods you're
looking for like where you can find them
how fresh they are and when the next
batch will arrive even if the worker
tries to lie to you you'll probably
notice it and draw your own conclusions
and there you go
you're now fully armed with the
necessary knowledge and expertise to
avoid falling for these deceptive retail
tricks with a careful eye for detail and
a little bit more effort you'll be
coming home from the grocery store with
only the tastiest safest best quality
foods on the Shelf enjoy now do you have
any of your own special tricks for
choosing the best products at the
grocery store share them with us in the
comments if this video helped you to
become a smarter shopper then give it a
like and share it with your friends so
they can get in on this info - see you
next time right here on the bright side
of life
[Music]